---
aliases:
  - Actions
  - Action
---
During an adventure, there may be times when conflicts cannot be resolved diplomatically, whether because two sides are at an impasse or because one side is a ravenous beast who cares little for flowery words. Combat is organized into turns; each combatant acts one at a time in order until one side comes out victorious. Combat encounters generally take about 10 minutes, or one [[2.2 Time Management#Dungeon Turns|Dungeon Turn]].

## Types of Actions

There are three types of Actions a character can take.

### Standard Action

A Standard Action is what you do on your turn, whether that is attacking, using an item, interacting with an object, or something else. You have one Standard Action per turn. If you receive a [[3.6 Follow-Ups, Shifting, & Showtime!|Follow-Up]], you immediately take a Standard Action, whether or not it's your turn.

### Move Action

On your turn, you can also move: to an enemy, to another area, or to an object you want to interact with. See [[3.5 Zones & Movement]] for the full rules on movement. You have one Move Action per turn.

You can spend your Standard Action to Dash, which grants you one additional Move Action during that turn.

### Reaction

A Reaction is an action you can take in response to something happening. You can take Reactions on your turn or another creature’s, but you cannot take them arbitrarily; a specific rule, a specific Skill, or some other type of ability will tell you when you can take a Reaction.

For example, you can only take the Opportunity Attack Reaction when a creature moves away from you without disengaging.

You have one Reaction per turn, regaining use of it at the start of your turn (not a Follow-Up).


Next: [[3.2 Initiating Combat & Turn Order]]