Drawing for Spoils is an activity that happens after a combat encounter within a dungeon ends with a Showtime! or a Prime Time. Drawing for Spoils typically does not happen after facing a powerful enemy because that enemy will have a fixed reward decided by your DM.

## Selection Process

First, choose a player who participated in that combat encounter to roll **`1d4 + 1`**. It is recommended that the party member that initiated the Showtime! or Prime Time rolls, but feel free to create your own selection process. That player will then draw that number of cards from the Spoils Deck. The party can choose one card from the drawn cards to immediately take effect. The party should decide collectively, but to avoid stalemates, the player that rolled has final say on the card to choose. For cards that affect a single party member, the party also decides collectively which member benefits, with the rolling player having final say in the case of a stalemate.

The chosen card is removed from the deck until the players leave the dungeon. Any remaining cards are shuffled back into the deck.

## Spoils Deck

The Spoils Deck is composed of 52 Minor Arcana cards and a minimum of 2 Major Arcana cards. The Minor Arcana cards are consistent, while the DM determines which Major Arcana cards out of the 21 possible options to add to the deck when the players first enter the dungeon.

### Minor Arcana

The Minor Arcana are divided into four suits: Coins, Wands, Swords, and Cups. Coins award currency native to the setting. Wands award a boon that aids dungeon exploration. Swords award Skill Cards, single-use items that allow you to cast a specific Skill for free. Cups award HP recovery or support effects that take place during your next combat encounter.

The DM should replace the Swords entries with Medium versions when the party reaches level 8, Heavy versions when the party reaches level 16, and Severe versions when the party reaches level 24. They may also increase the Coins rewards at higher levels as appropriate.

| Rank      | Coins    | Wands                              | Swords | Cups                             |
| --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- |
| **1**     | 1d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 1\|Wands 1]]   | Cleave | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 1\|Cups 1]]   |
| **2**     | 2d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 2\|Wands 2]]   | Bash   | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 2\|Cups 2]]   |
| **3**     | 3d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 3\|Wands 3]]   | Skewer | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 3\|Cups 3]]   |
| **4**     | 4d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 4\|Wands 4]]   | Agi    | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 4\|Cups 4]]   |
| **5**     | 5d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 5\|Wands 5]]   | Bufu   | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 5\|Cups 5]]   |
| **6**     | 6d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 6\|Wands 6]]   | Zio    | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 6\|Cups 6]]   |
| **7**     | 7d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 7\|Wands 7]]   | Garu   | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 7\|Cups 7]]   |
| **8**     | 8d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 8\|Wands 8]]   | Psi    | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 8\|Cups 8]]   |
| **9**     | 9d10 gp  | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 9\|Wands 9]]   | Frei   | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 9\|Cups 9]]   |
| **10**    | 10d10 gp | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands 10\|Wands 10]] | Kouha  | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups 10\|Cups 10]] |
| **Jack**  | 12d10 gp | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands J\|Wands J]]   | Eiha   | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups J\|Cups J]]   |
| **Queen** | 14d10 gp | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands Q\|Wands Q]]   | Dia    | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups Q\|Cups Q]]   |
| **King**  | 16d10 gp | [[3.10 Spoils#Wands K\|Wands K]]   | Megido | [[3.10 Spoils#Cups K\|Cups K]]   |

### Major Arcana & Arcana Burst

There are 21 possible Major Arcana cards. The DM will add a certain number of them into the deck when the party enters the dungeon. If all Major Arcana cards are collected in one adventuring day, the party is awarded a [[1.6 Level Advancement|Victory]].

The number of Major Arcana cards that are present in the deck is equal to half the party's average level (rounded down) + 1 with a minimum of 2. For example, a level 4 party will have 3 Major Arcana cards present.

|                                        |                                    |                                                |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Fool\|Fool]]             | [[3.10 Spoils#Magician\|Magician]] | [[3.10 Spoils#High Priestess\|High Priestess]] |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Empress\|Empress]]       | [[3.10 Spoils#Emperor\|Emperor]]   | [[3.10 Spoils#Hierophant\|Hierophant]]         |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Lovers\|Lovers]]         | [[3.10 Spoils#Chariot\|Chariot]]   | [[3.10 Spoils#Justice\|Justice]]               |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Hermit\|Hermit]]         | [[3.10 Spoils#Fortune\|Fortune]]   | [[3.10 Spoils#Strength\|Strength]]             |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Hanged Man\|Hanged Man]] | [[3.10 Spoils#Death\|Death]]       | [[3.10 Spoils#Temperance\|Temperance]]         |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Devil\|Devil]]           | [[3.10 Spoils#Tower\|Tower]]       | [[3.10 Spoils#Star\|Star]]                     |
| [[3.10 Spoils#Moon\|Moon]]             | [[3.10 Spoils#Sun\|Sun]]           | [[3.10 Spoils#Judgement\|Judgement]]           |
|                                        | [[3.10 Spoils#World\|World]]       |                                                |

### Wands Entries

#### Wands 1

You automatically detect the next trap your party encounters in this dungeon.

#### Wands 2

Choose one party member. The next Talent Test they make during a dungeon turn automatically succeeds.

#### Wands 3

Reveal all hidden features in your current Zone with a DC of 15 or lower.

#### Wands 4

The next time your party would make an Ambush roll, treat it as a natural 20.

#### Wands 5

Reveal all hidden features in your current Zone with a DC of 18 or lower.

#### Wands 6

Your party automatically detects all traps in your current Zone.

#### Wands 7

Reveal all hidden features in your current Zone with a DC of 20 or lower.

#### Wands 8

Choose one party member. They have Advantage on all Talent Tests they make during the next three dungeon turns.

#### Wands 9

Until the next combat encounter starts, monsters of a lower Level than your party's average level cannot detect your party. Your party automatically succeeds Ambush rolls against them.

#### Wands 10

Reveal all hidden features in your current Zone with a DC of 30 or lower.

#### Wands J

Your party automatically detects the next four traps they come across in this dungeon.

#### Wands Q

Your party may take a Respite without spending any dungeon turns.

#### Wands K

Your party cannot be ambushes or counter-ambushed for the rest of the adventuring day.

### Cups Entries

#### Cups 1

Choose one party member. They recover 10% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 2

Choose one party member. They recover 25% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 3

Each party member recovers 10% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 4

Choose one party member. They start the next combat encounter with Hit/Evasion Up.

#### Cups 5

Choose one party member. They recover 50% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 6

Choose one party member. They start the next combat encounter with Defense Up.

#### Cups 7

Each party member recovers 25% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 8

Choose one party member. They start the next combat encounter with Attack Up.

#### Cups 9

Choose one party member. They recover all of their maximum HP.

#### Cups 10

Each party member recovers 50% of their maximum HP.

#### Cups J

Choose one party member. They start the next combat encounter Concentrating.

#### Cups Q

Choose one party member. They start the next combat encounter Charged.

#### Cups K

Each party member recovers all of their maximum HP. In addition, choose one party member: they start the next combat encounter Charged or Concentrating (their choice).

### Major Arcana Entries

#### Fool

#### Magician

#### High Priestess

Showtime! deals an additional 1d4 damage per participant for the rest of the adventuring day.

#### Empress

#### Emperor

#### Hierophant

#### Lovers

#### Chariot

#### Justice

You can choose one more card during Spoils.

#### Hermit

#### Fortune

#### Strength

#### Hanged Man

#### Death

#### Temperance

#### Devil

#### Tower

#### Star

#### Moon

The party gains the benefits of a Partial Rest. 

#### Sun

#### Judgement

#### World

Time stops for—
Just kidding. The players can choose any one Minor or Major Arcana card to take effect, including cards that have been used.