All sources of damage have a damage type and all characters have affinities for those damage types. The damage types are listed on the example Affinity Chart below. They don’t have any rules on their own, but affinities rely on these damage types.

There is one exception: **Almighty Damage**. Almighty is not listed on a character’s Affinity Chart because nothing is Weak to it but nothing Resists/Nulls/Drains/Repels it either. If you find yourself struggling to hit an enemy, try dealing Almighty damage.

## Damage Categories

The damage types are grouped into the following categories:

| Material              | Elemental             | Spiritual  | Moral       |
| --------------------- | --------------------- | ---------- | ----------- |
| Slash, Pierce, Strike | Fire, Ice, Elec, Wind | Mind, Soul | Light, Dark |


## Affinities

There are six different affinities, each with specific interactions.

_**Neutral.**_ The default affinity. Damage is unaffected.

_**Weak.**_ The damage is multiplied by **1.5x** and the defender receives the [[Downed]] ailment.

_**Resist.**_ The damage is multiplied by **0.5x**. Any potential side effects are not applied, except on a natural 20.

_**Null.**_ The damage is reduced to 0. Side effects are never applied, regardless of the roll.

_**Repel.**_ The attacker is treated as the attack target, taking damage, side effects, and any affinity interactions.

If the attacker is Weak to that damage type, they take 1.5x damage and are [[Downed]]. If the attacker Drains that damage type, they regain HP instead. If the attacker Nulls or also Repels that damage type, they take no damage — there is no infinite damage loop. Any relevant side effects are also applied to the attacker.

Take care giving yourself the Repel affinity when fighting an enemy with Drain!

_**Drain.**_ The defender is healed for the amount of damage instead. Side effects are never applied, regardless of the roll.

If a character somehow has multiple affinities for the same damage type then **Drain** takes priority, followed by **Repel**, **Null**, **Resist**, and finally **Neutral**. Some Skills may cause the target’s affinity to a damage type to become Weak. This has the highest priority, overriding even **Drain**.

### Affinity Charts

Each character has an Affinity Chart which lists the damage type and their affinity toward it. An example Affinity Chart is:

| Slash | Pierce | Strike | Fire   | Ice   | Wind | Elec  | Soul | Mind | Light | Dark |
| ----- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ----- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ---- | ----- | ---- |
| —     | Weak   | —      | Resist | Drain | —    | Repel | —    | Null | —     | —    |

Under this example, this character is Weak to Pierce; if they received Pierce damage, it would be multiplied by **1.5x** and they’d also be [[Downed]]. This character resists Fire, taking half damage from it. If they were targeted by an Ice attack, they would be healed by the damage amount instead. If they were targeted by an Electric attack, the attacker would take damage instead. If they were targeted by a Mind attack, they’d take no damage at all.

Next: [[3.5 Zones & Movement]]