When a player character reaches 0 Hit Points, they are only mostly dead, or **Fallen**. While in this state, their turns are skipped and enemies ignore them. Skills that restore Hit Points but do not explicitly say they revive Fallen characters have no effect. Taking additional damage while in this state also has no effect. Skills that target multiple characters do not hit Fallen ones. At the end of a victorious combat encounter, all Fallen player characters recover and are set to 1 Hit Point. However, if every player character becomes Fallen, then they all become **dead** (unless they are somehow saved by another character or D(M)ivine Intervention).

## Dead Characters

When a non-player character reaches 0 Hit Points or the entire adventuring party is Fallen, they are **dead**; Miracle Max would tell you to go through their pockets for loose change. If the entire adventuring party is dead, the DM will need to decide how the adventure continues. They may decide to restart the dungeon or allow the players to retry the combat encounter. They may also simply decide the players have failed and the adventure is over. The consequences for death are varied and highly-dependent on the world the DM has created and the tone of the campaign.

The DM may also rule certain actions performed by a player cause them to become dead rather than Fallen, such as if they jump off a 100-story building or into a tree shredder. How accessible tools used to revive the dead are is left up to the DM and their world-building. In some cases, the remaining characters may go on an adventure looking for resurrection magic. In others, the DM may tell the dead player to build a new character.

As a general rule, Fallen is a game state while death is a narrative device.

## Non-Lethal Encounters

Players can decide during a combat encounter that they do not want to deal lethal damage, such as during a sparring match. During a non-lethal combat encounter, a non-player character falls unconscious when they reach 0 Hit Points instead of dying. If the other side agrees to not deal lethal damage, players are still Fallen when they reach 0 Hit Points, but if all players become Fallen, combat ends with them falling unconscious rather than dying.

Next: [[3.10 Spoils]]