All characters, including monsters, have four physical statistics, or Attributes. If a character has sapience (wolves don’t but goblins do, for example), they also have four social Virtues.

## Attributes

The four combat stats and what they affect are listed on the table below.

| Attribute | In combat                               | Out of combat                      |
| --------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Strength  | Increases damage of physical attacks    | Lift heavy objects                 |
| Magic     | Increases damage of magical attacks     | Perform magical feats              |
| Agility   | Affects turn order and accuracy         | Avoid traps or move quietly        |
| Luck      | Affects critical hit and ailment chance | Beat the odds                      |

Attributes can range from -7 to +7. Higher scores are always better.

| Score    | Meaning                   |
| -------- | ------------------------- |
| -7       | The lowest a stat can go. |
| -6 to -4 | Very weak                 |
| -3 to -1 | Below average             |
| 0        | Average                   |
| 1 to 3   | Above average             |
| 4 to 6   | Extraordinary capability  |
| 7        | The highest a stat can go |

### Attributes from Archetypes

Your active Archetype determines your Attributes. For example, the **Mage** Archetype provides the following Attributes:

| Attribute | Score |
| --------- | ----- |
| Strength  | -1    |
| Magic     | 2     |
| Agility   | 1     |
| Luck      | 1     |

Attributes have a hard cap of 7 and a floor of -7, regardless of bonuses.

#### Mastering an Archetype

When you reach the maximum rank in an Archetype, you might gain a small **permanent** bonus to your Attributes, HP, or SP. Unlike Archetype scores, permanent bonuses persist even when the Archetype is inactive. However, the hard cap still applies. Your stats cannot go above 7 or below -7, no matter the source.

## Social Virtues

All sapient characters, which can include some monsters, have four social statistics, or Virtues. These are listed on the table below.

| Virtue     | Allows you to…                                      |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Expression | Entertain, persuade, or deceive                     |
| Empathy    | Understand how others feel or will behave           |
| Wisdom     | Recall facts, survive in nature, or learn languages |
| Focus      | Notice details, solve puzzles, or brew potions      |

Social Virtues have 8 ranks, from 0 to 7. You can increase the rank of a Virtue by doing certain activities or overcoming challenges.

| Rank | Meaning       |
| ---- | ------------- |
| 0    | Below average |
| 1    | Average       |
| 2-4  | Above average |
| 5-6  | Exceptional   |
| 7    | World-class   |

A police detective will likely have Rank 2-3 Focus and Empathy, but Rank 0-1 Wisdom and Expression. A highly-experienced conman will likely have Rank 4-5 Empathy, Expression, and Wisdom but Rank 0-1 Focus. A character might have a surprisingly high Virtue even if they’re otherwise average across the board. A homeless man might have exceptional Wisdom, which represents their street-smarts. A merchant might have exceptional Empathy, which represents their shrewdness.


> [!info] Descriptive, Not Normative
> These Virtues affect your capacity to act and can inform your roleplay, but you should not assign them moral weight. An evil character can have high Empathy, for example; they would understand how others feel but they would simply not care.

### Creating a New Character

A Level 1 character’s Virtues are all Rank 0. During character creation, you may rank up one Virtue by 2 and two other different Virtues by 1. A newly-created valiant knight might have the following Virtues:

| Virtue     | Rank |
| ---------- | ---- |
| Expression | 0    |
| Empathy    | 2    |
| Wisdom     | 1    |
| Focus      | 1    |

### Higher Level Characters

> [!todo] Todo
> Rules for creating higher level characters

### Ranking Up Virtues

Your character gains progress toward their Virtues when they undertake certain downtime activities or when they demonstrate that Virtue in a meaningful way under pressure. Each instance grants you 1 **Spark**. When you accumulate 7 Sparks, you must immediately increase the Rank of one of your eligible Virtues by 1. Sparks then reset to zero and you begin accumulating again.

Each downtime activity has a Virtue attached to it. A book on lost languages would be tied to Wisdom. Brewing potions would be tied to Focus. Sometimes, an activity can be tied to multiple Virtues, such as a high-stakes card game that ties in Expression and Empathy. **You may only rank up a Virtue if you've participated in at least one activity tied to it since your last rank-up**. 

For example, let's say a character spends 7 downtime sessions like so:

1. Read a book on devil lore (+1 Spark; Wisdom)
2. Read a book on ancient runes (+1 Spark; Wisdom)
3. Volunteered at the town orphanage for an afternoon (+1 Spark; Empathy)
4. Carefully and successfully brewed a Potion of Flight (+1 Spark; Focus)
5. Studied in the royal library (+1 Spark; Wisdom)
6. Watched the local theater troupe perform a tragedy (+1 Spark; Empathy)
7. Read a book on lost artifacts (+1 Spark; Wisdom)

This character would be eligible to rank up their Wisdom, Focus, or Empathy. However, they would **not** be able to rank up their Expression.

The DM may also award a Spark when your character demonstrates a Virtue meaningfully outside of downtime. For example, if your character presents a great argument during a Negotiation, the DM may award your character a Spark and let you check off Expression.

Next: [[1.3 Archetypes]]