---
aliases:
  - Victories
  - Victory
  - Heroic Victories
  - Heroic Victory
---
Characters advance in level by achieving Victories. A Victory is a moderately-sized win, such as retrieving the tavern owner’s stolen ring from a band of goblins, defeating one of the Big Bad’s middle management, or solving a challenging puzzle within a dungeon. Characters can also gain a Victory by overcoming a challenge from their backstory. For example, if you set out to find the man who murdered your father, you’d earn a Victory by bringing the perpetrator to justice. The more hooks you give the DM as part of your backstory, the greater chance you’ll earn a Victory. Standard combat encounters do **not** award Victories.

Your character can also earn a Heroic Victory by achieving a large-scale feat, such as defending a city from an invading Bugbear army or slaying a powerful dragon. A Heroic Victory counts as two Victories.

Once your character earns 7 Victories, they gain a level. If you have 6 Victories and gain a Heroic Victory, that extra Victory carries over into the progress toward the next level.

## Summary

To summarize, when your character gains a level, they gain:

- 1 Hit Die and 2 Skill Dice. Roll or take the average, then add to your HP and SP respectively.
- 2 Archetype Ranks. You can spend them now or save them for later.

Your Virtues are not tied to your character level. You gain progress toward your Virtues through daily activities, interactions with other characters, and moments of character growth.